1984 George Orwell wrote that they will
never rebel until they become conscious
and they can't become conscious until
after they were built
the society we live in today in the
Western world is very similar to 1984's
fictional world it's not as brutal it's
not as drab but there are certainly
control mechanisms in place that keep
you thinking within the box and you
can't think outside of that box until
you become conscious and then you can
repel the hard part's over
you've become conscious you broke that
cycle now you have to rebel now the good
news is you don't need a rifle
you're always gonna need help I'm I'm a
pretty independent guy and a lot of you
may know that after Hurricane Michael I
was down in Panama City cutting down
trees clearing debris delivering food
and medicine whatever was needed
meanwhile back here yeah I cleared all
the trees except one right near the
house and it was a big tree about five
feet off the ground it split into two
trunks and when the hurricane came
through twisted it one of the trunks
leaned one direction the other one stood
more or less straight up I couldn't cut
it down the whole thing at once because
I didn't know because of how the weight
was distributed I didn't know where it
was gonna fall and there weren't a lot
of places for it fall for it to fall
that it wouldn't damage something so I
rattled my network called this guy Jason
so he comes over and he looks at the
tree he shakes it walks out to his truck
grabs a strap comes in straps it up cuts
the tree both pieces boom boom land and
this 10-foot clearing right on top of
each other don't hit anything how'd he
do it
magic I don't know I needed that help
though because I never would have been
able to do that I needed somebody with
that skill set I needed that Network and
if you want to be independent you're
gonna need that Network being
independent doesn't actually mean doing
everything by yourself it means having
the freedom to choose how it gets done
that Network and you're gonna have to
build it so how do you go about starting
one of these things well you have to
start off with a real self evaluation
what do you have to offer and what do
the people in your immediate circle have
to offer that you can kind of use to
begin because that's how it has to start
has to start with you offering to do
stuff and then in the hopes of it being
reciprocated everybody has something to
offer a network like this everybody but
you need to do a real honest
self-evaluation of your skills and what
you can offer and you're gonna need to
know that before you start trying to
build the network gotta be pretty
critical okay yeah you you built a
birdhouse but are you really a carpenter
you know that type of thing and then you
have to get over your own hangups there
was a comment on Facebook from somebody
that had a medical issue and that's it
and the the overriding theme of it was
something that comes from older people a
lot it's basically you know at this
point in my life I'm broke
I am broken I can't go out and do
anything I pretty much stay at home okay
but you've got decades of life
experience you have decades of
experience at something and that
expertise is valuable sometimes it's not
actually going out and swinging a hammer
it's providing the advice to make that
easier don't sell yourself short and
then there was a comment from a younger
guy once a B 17 16 17 something like
that he's like man I want to do this but
can I do it at my age you can definitely
start it now you can definitely start it
now and the thing is even though you
don't have any skills to offer it may
seem that way
kid I don't I don't have anything to
offer oh yeah if you were to start this
now and were to use social media to help
link up with other people in your
community that needs something you can
learn so much you can get a free
education you can gather this wide array
of skills just by saying yeah I'll help
you do that the other group of people
that have a concern is introverts you
know this is easy if you're a social
butterfly not so much if you're an
introvert yeah but if you're an
introvert you probably have a job that
allows you to be alone most hamed's
which means you probably have skills
that other people don't have I'm gonna
gasp I mean you use social media okay so
you can network that way at least in the
beginning build a digital community very
similar and maybe you can provide
Computer Services or whatever it is that
you do via that method so you don't have
to actually meet these people and then
as time goes on and you interact with
them online you may actually end up
meeting everybody though everybody has
something to offer a network like this
that there are no exceptions to attacked
everybody so how do you recruit people
to join your network well obviously you
start off with your immediate circle
that's where it begins and that could be
your friends your co-workers people from
school maybe you're in a club that
focuses on some hobby and you can expand
it beyond that you can look on social
media you know there's a lot of local
based Facebook groups and you could look
in those then I mean another good place
to find people that would be interested
in this is activist communities those
people look for the helpers
those people that are out there already
doing it getting nothing in return most
times those people are definitely going
to be interested in something like this
the other thing you have to decide is
the structure how are you going to
structure your organization I know a
group of Army guys and what they do is
they've got poker chips with their names
on them and when you know when somebody
comes and does a favor for you Egham a
poker chip and later on they've got that
poker chip with your name on so there's
no formal agreement there's no money
changing hands or anything like that but
there's a marker and that's one way to
do it is to engage in some kind of
barter system that that's there the
other way to do it is send it up kind of
on a more social one where everybody's
involved and everybody just makes a
commitment to help if they can rule 303
if you have the means at hand you have
the responsibility you can go further
than that you can turn it into monthly
meetings you can engage in community
service in your community that helps get
the word out about your network and kind
of shows that you're a group of people
worthy of being around
if you're a war with the system you have
to act like it and Wars cost money
you know it's not for bullets and bombs
but you need resources to do just about
anything who are the people that are
most aware of the failings of the system
those of limited means those that don't
have the resources to do much and you're
kind of trained to be like that you
really are in school learn this you can
get hired
you'll be employable working for
somebody else may not be the best answer
especially if you're looking for
independence the solution is increasing
the amount of money you have coming at
what happens when somebody outside of
one of your networks need something that
you know how to do and somebody inside
your network hears about it who do they
recommend you and never forget that
sometimes the skills of the entire
network complement each other you know
through a twist of fate I know a group
of firefighters who everybody in the
station happened to know something about
repairing houses one was an electrician
one was a plumber one was a carpenter
one was a painter so of course these
guys they're together all day anyway so
they started remodeling and flipping
houses and they made a lot of money
doing it and some years they make more
money doing that and they do as a
firefighter even if you don't have a
skill that is marketable you know you're
not a handyman or whatever there are a
whole bunch of low startup or no startup
businesses that can be done with almost
enough there are an entire websites
dedicated to just listing the different
types of businesses that can be started
for like under five hundred dollars that
it is a way to increase the amount of
money you have
coming in and let's say you just don't
have the you don't have the time to do
that
you can always invest and somebody else
in the network you know let's say you
got a guy that wants to start a
landscaping company but he needs a
trailer you can get him that trailer say
okay well I'll get you the trailer but
10% you know you want to break away from
that system you don't have to be
employed by somebody else
a lot of the comments on Facebook were
concerned about the limitations of these
types of networks the reason I first
became interested in them and started
really thinking about them was because
of something called stay behind
organizations during the Cold War
NATO created these little networks all
over Europe and their job as the name
suggests was to stay behind in the event
of a Soviet invasion what they did was
they put people at railroad yards
hospitals police stations city calls all
kinds of different places and they
figured they needed to do it beforehand
because they learned during World War
two that if you waited until after the
invasion the foreign intelligence
service would be looking for new people
in these places so they had to get in
place beforehand
a lot of these guys were military some
of them some of them were intelligence
and but a whole lot of them were
civilians and I want you to think about
what NATO believed they could accomplish
they thought they could basically from
in a revolution from inside the country
and they could run resistance operations
that entails a lot that tells a whole
lot you're talking about treating the
wounded gathering intelligence running
arms maybe engaging the military
operations sabotage all kinds of stuff
all of which carries an amazing amount
of logistics behind it if you actually
want to accomplish it NATO was convinced
that these little networks could do it
and they're set up the same way it's a
group of people come together for cause
they accomplish it and then they go on
about their lives now if you know
anything about stay behind organizations
you're probably going you got to talk
about Gladio bo yeah okay so there was
one of these called Gladio that went off
the rails they got way out of hand
even without an invasion they carried
out assassinations all kinds of stuff
not the best example but that was one of
like 50 of these things and the thing is
though if you take away the horror of
this situation shows you exactly how
effective they are and what they can't
accomplish the logistics behind some of
the stuff that they carried out was
amazing again I'm not saying that what
they did was good I'm just saying that
it proved the theory because not just
can these little organizations and these
little networks help you with the
everyday things it can be translated
into things much larger than that when
you build your network those people are
going to have friends and then
eventually they'll be part of that
network it'll grow to the point where
it's no longer just a network it's a
community and as you build that
community you're building your community
you're making your community stronger if
you make your community strong enough it
doesn't matter who gets elected doesn't
matter who's sitting in the Oval Office
doesn't matter if you hate Trump or
Obama whoever it is they're empowered
you're going to be fine because your
community can take care of itself you're
changing the world you live in you're
changing the world by building your
community you know people in the comment
section joke about me running for office
I'm just a guy I'm just as corruptible
as anybody else that has ever been given
power we've lived under rulers in this
country for a really long time not sure
that's really where we need to go not
sure top-down leadership is the answer I
think maybe community building is the
answer you know what's best for your
community in your area you know what
more than anybody in your state capitol
a representative that shows up to do a
PR photo-op once a year and certainly
more than anybody that's sitting in the
Oval Office another quote from 1984 is
that if there is any hope it must lie in
the proles
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good night